# Annotation Feedback for Detecting Click-Bait Videos

I read the guidelines prior to looking at the data to see if they would truly prepare me to annotate the 100 units accurately, and these guidelines did just that. The examples provided in the guidelines were great indicators of what to expect and what techniques click-bait title authors employ. I felt extremely prepared and well versed in detecting click-baity titles according to the set of guidelines given, as well as their instruction to keep in mind a holistic and human approach to detecting when one feels lured in (baited). I believe that these guidelines are comprehensive and digestible enough for them to be released and used by the majority of human audiences, general to the average Western consumer of social media and Youtube; the guideline was listed and labeled in a way that defined the technique definition and followed up with several examples of its application to titles. 

There were times in the data where I felt a bit unsure about whether to label the individual data as true or false and what the approach was during bordering moments, so I feel that this was one part the guidelines could have elaborated a bit more on. The extensive information about how video genres can help determine if the video title contains click-bait was useful in my situations of borderline moments, so I was not completely left out in the dark. I would suggest that the data should be divided into 0/1/2 in terms of level of click bait, because I think that the polarity of the yes/no option leaves out the middle ground of some titles that potentially sound more pretentious and “bait-y” in nature. These guidelines were great and very useful!

============================

﻿For AP3, I labeled a sample of ~100 data points as either a click-bait or non-click-bait video title using the guidelines provided by the team. Overall, it was a straightforward task, however, there are opportunities for the team to improve their guideline document. 

There were moments where the guidelines allowed for ambiguity. In the section, Extreme Numbers, the team stated that clickbait video titles include numbers on “the edge of the spectrum”. The group should consider clarifying an exact numeric range for this “spectrum” to reduce confusion and ensure consistency. For the section, Overgeneralized words, the team currently has a quick one sentence explanation. I advise that clearly list the words that they consider are “overgeneralizing” words such as “easy”, “best”, etc. In the Superlative adjectives and adverbs section, the part that discusses exceptions can be improved. Currently, the team sets subjective statements as an exception. Rather, exceptions should be non-subjective statements - factual sentences. This way their example, “Live PD: Most Viewed Moments from of Nye County, NV | A&E”, becomes an exception because it is a factual statement and not just an overdramatic statement. In the section, Unrealistic, Defying Normal, the team provides their definition of “unrealistic”, however, they do not clearly define “normal”. As a reader, there was not a clear outline of how to identify a topic as abnormal. Currently, the section states, “...nasty stuff normal people won’t do…”. The team should consider clarifying what nasty stuff means and the behavior of a “normal person”. One of the elements covered in their guideline is capitalization. This was a great observation from the team because there were numerous capitalized words in the data. My suggestion for the team is to consider the use of capitalization to replace italicization. If a content creator is not able to italicize a word, say in YouTube, they may write the word in all caps. 

Italicizing is proper punctuation. Therefore, I suggest that the team consider adding “capitalization as italicizing” as an exception in this section on clickbait classification. 

Many of the other guideline sections were easy to follow. In the Extreme Numbers section, the team clarified that “free” should be treated the same as seeing $0 - both leading to high suspicions of clickbaiting. The section on capitalization made it clear to me why utilizing capital letters often leads to a clickbait title. The written guidelines in this section were very clear to understand, and I applied their process easily as I classified the texts. With some adjustments, they will have an even more robust set of guidelines.

============================

﻿I think the guidelines were clear in terms of what features to look out for that would be classified as clickbait. The way in which clickbait is defined is clear and concise but the intentions aspect regarding why this clickbait is used could be built upon and further clarified. I am a bit confused on what other intentions users have when choosing to have a clickbait title. Understanding more intentions of different users regarding their reasoning for using clickbait can strengthen the categorical boundaries created as well as expand on these boundaries. When it comes to how clickbait is classified, I want to reiterate on the clearness of the types of clickbait. Using the categorical boundaries given helped me identify what genuinely was clickbait. Another category that could be potentially explored is the over exaggerating of topics. Adding drama and mystery to the title hooks the reader more easily and can lead to more clicks. Another tendency I also see with clickbait is how the title does not accurately describe the contents of the article and diverges from the actual purpose of the article; this can lead readers to feeling confused and foolish for clicking on the title in the first place. The examples in the guidelines are good examples on what was actually being annotated. A categorical boundary I did not really encounter- which can be due to the limited sample of 100 data points- was the “‘not clickbait’ is a clickbait” categorical boundary.The guidelines provided enough examples that were sufficient in guiding me through my annotations. I tended to see superlative adjectives and adverbs in clickbait titles as this categorical boundary was clear in its application. I think it was a good choice too not using the type of article, i.e. informative, science, as a categorical boundary since the clickbait titles ranged from different types of articles.

============================

﻿Overall the guidelines provided were highly comprehensive and easy to follow along with. They also provided helpful examples that reflected the complexity of the actual data. In terms of areas for improvement the first thing may be clarifying how to use the examples in the lightly suspicious scenarios. It might have been helpful for the guidelines to have included not just the examples, but also which of those examples should have been labeled as clickbait and which ones as not. Since lightly suspicious doesn’t indicate one clear label, having more clarity for the annotator to determine how to make the final call would ensure more consistency across annotators. 


Additionally, it might be helpful to add more instructions in regards to how to factor in the video category when labeling. The guidelines stated that some categories like informative, news, and science have lower clickbait rates. However, based on the data, some titles in those categories still seemed like they were clickbait, so clarifying whether the category itself can be used as the sole decidor of the label may be helpful. For example, if a title in the informative category seems like clickbait and exhibits one of the lightly suspicious behaviors, is it possible to label it as clickbait or does the nature of the video being informative mean it can’t. Additionally, a small addition to the guidelines could also be specifying that the video game category also has a higher percentage of click bait.


Some additional small notes would be including hashtags as one of the lightly suspicious behaviors, as they seemed to come up a couple of times in the data. Finally, the pie chart on page 7 is hard to read, so either increasing the size of the graph or grouping some of the labels together into an “other” or “two labels” category to decrease the amount of text.